welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
[Music]
business
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth show
i'm excited to be joined by louise
archer today
luis has gone from consultancy services
manager to a client partner
she's worked in senior roles on the
front line of recruitment for 20 years
now
louise's knowledge of retained search
and associated services were found with
an approach to implementing and selling
them that is straightforward
open and results driven louise welcome
to the show
how's it going it's going really well
sam thank you very much for having me
um really good busy um and in the
background cleaning windows but yeah
everything's good very good thank you
pleased to hear it
great stuff so as always luis there's a
few key things that myself
and everyone tuning in today would like
to learn from you um
so we want to learn as you've grown your
own business recently with one of
your top business growth strategies so
how you've been able to grow your
business in a short space of time
of the channels that have been useful
for you be them digital marketing or be
them offline more traditional marketing
um but before we get to that it'd be
great to learn a bit more about your
background
so your story so if you could share with
us a bit of insight into yourself really
where you grew up
some of the key businesses you've worked
at and some of the lessons or actionable
tips
and you picked up along the way whether
it's sales whether it's marketing or
business in general we'd love to learn
it
okay cool well um yeah i mean i guess
the first thing to say
is that i i swore to myself as a
teenager i think that i would never set
my own business up
um and yet here i am so i guess
um the journey that i've been on has
been unusual
um because i guess a lot of people
actually strive to work for themselves
and build their own their own company
and mine was the the exact kind of
reverse of that
um so i i've you know i really enjoyed
um
my my career and i really enjoyed
working for other other
people um largely not everybody
obviously
but i i learned a huge amount and some
of those kind of key key things were i
was lucky enough
to be trained and formally trained at a
firm called hudson
which was tmp and they're known for a
real best practice in in our industry
and the training's very very very good
and so i think that gave me a really
good foundation um
for the an opportunity that presented
itself
uh later down in my career which was to
join another business called air swift
into the engineering world and
previously all my experience had been
i'm very much uk based and i didn't
really have although i'd done the fair
amount of travelling
i didn't really have visibility of the
kind of
international opportunities that a
career in recruitment could offer
it didn't really feel tangible until i
joined
air swift which is truly um an
international
business and from day one um it was uh
uh you know building teams in in jakarta
in indonesia in
in in kl in malaysia in in norway
and um you know literally all over the
world and
nobody batted an eyelid at somebody
having three passports because they had
to go to
angola and then into um into canada into
and and that was exciting that was a big
big part of the world opening up for me
um and then i guess um
when i moved back into the uk um
for personal reasons i i sort of felt
like the world had been a bit shocked
was getting shut down a little bit for
me um
because i did some international work
with with er swift
and the uk felt like a very small place
when i came back
um but i learned a huge amount again um
in how to work through that and
resilience is just such a huge part of
getting through
sales in general isn't it and certainly
um that i came through quite a difficult
time um in what is a very competitive
challenging market
uh and came out on top and did um
did did really well in building what
what is now uh
about i think they do about eight
million eight million pounds a year in
the consultancy service division that
that myself and a colleague of mine
established
um okay yeah yeah that was that was a
huge part of my
goal excellent stuff so you trained at
hudson and you said that the training
there was impeccable so was that
recruitment was that sales in general
and why was their training so much got
it awesome so why was their training so
much better because a lot of us
from a sales background i myself
especially i just used to
i think one of my first roles they
pretty much just just gave me probably
an hour
half an hour's training sam um here's
what we do
here's our services go hit the phone
start selling start cold calling start
eat cold emailing start getting on
social whatever
so um it's great that you had a good
framework what would you say that made
their training stand out from
what so many of us are used to seeing um
i mean you know you learn on the job as
well right it's not all all training but
i get and i guess that was
part of what was so good about it there
was there was a formal
training process that every you know new
hire
went through that was driven from um
you know central best practice and
probably world-class facility training
facility and
um and skills and talent training talent
in london
and then that was combined with the
management who
had all been through that training and
grown up with that themselves who were
preaching and practicing what you know
what what that was preaching so it was
constant reinforcement of
somebody says to me today the systematic
application of basic principles and that
is exactly
you know what what worked for me um
and then having combined with the
the cut and thrust and the rough and
ready
um you know jfdi attitude of recruitment
sales training where you you know i had
my manager sitting next to me and i
remember when you you know you've got
the
the old phones where you can hang it up
without actually hanging the phone up
okay so she used to have double handsets
and she would listen into me and if i
said
um something that she wasn't happy with
or that wasn't the right thing to say
she'd just hang the phone up mid-client
call
and be like right next and and that you
know taught me
very quickly not to you know not to
screw it up and
so is that i think it's that combination
of the reinforcement of that
system those systematic applications
those basic principles
and but don is better than perfect just
keep keep doing it
yeah so true so true and that comes down
to a lot of things
and okay and then you you moved to air
swift and that was an international
business right so you're working
overseas
yeah i started in the uk and was thrown
in massively at the deep end
um had 50 requirements i was i was i
went in-house for the first time and had
50 requirements globally to
on my plate on my head and i guess that
really taught me
just graft i was i kind of grafted her
anyway because i'm a kind of country
girl and i like
you know um i like getting stuck in but
that was something completely different
i was up all hours of the day and night
trying to you know to
well working with candidates um and
i loved that but what that did also was
open up an opportunity internally for me
to move to the u.s
so i went and spent um about
a couple of years i think it was um in
in houston in texas which was oh nice
yeah like just i don't know something
different have you lived in the states
you've worked i've not i've never worked
over there i've worked with clients in
the u.s and i've been there a few times
on holidays but never for business
it's a cool place to you know do
business it really is i
really really enjoyed it like i yeah i
didn't really want to come
come back actually um i learned so much
and what
what it taught me most you know working
over there was confidence i did
i overheard i heard some someone else
talking about the us
the american americans and their
confidence the other day and it's so
true they've just got inherently inside
them is
i'm i'm great i'm i'm gonna nail this
and it's so different from what you know
from us as brits who are constantly
yeah and a lot of it comes from the
schools because you know my children
were in schools over there and
every day they'd homie and the prize
givings constant price giving constant
praise and great job brilliant even if
it's not even if it's absolutely
shy they're going this is amazing this
is you
are awesome and i think that constant
reassurance and that constant confidence
really just does a lot for us
brits i think it really helps us move
forward definitely i mean i'd say us as
a nation we're far too polite
um and things like that and we just we
just beat around the bush whereas
americans tend to be a bit more to the
point and
and like you say there there's a lot
more motivation and things like that so
you've got a lot of great traits
especially to sell them comparing it
with you know now they're back in school
in the uk
you know you see their report and you
know harry is really good at uh
applying and listening but it could
definitely be improved if you know it's
it's no way it's just nowhere near the
amount of you know
reinforcement of um of confidence and
self-esteem that the americans get
interested a lot from them agreed um
okay so selling overseas so
what would you say would be the
difference between sales in the uk
and sales in the us is there one is is
it quite a different transition
i think so um i think a lot of it is um
well for us as recruiters in our
industry uh we're valued
i won't say you know we're not
prized over there but we're certainly
valued a lot
more highly than we are in the uk as an
industry and as a profession and that
really helps so that makes it
for a different experience um i would
say that
the certainly the texans where where i
was they like doing business based on
relationship
and a lot of that is face to face so i
found myself
working more um they were much more
receptive to working face to face and
therefore forming much more deep
deeper and meaningful relationships so
that that was a bit more different from
the
kind of transactional supply
relationship that a lot of the the uk
firms
prefer um
the fees bigger you know fees are bigger
so
yeah generally higher slightly safe
recruitment's
pretty cut through it's not easy and a
lot of us brits when you talk about
recruiters they're
they kind of start cringing they think i
want to skip that and stuff like that so
it's not an easy industry to be in so
i've always got respect for a lot of
recruiters that
that are doing well um so in terms of
selling face to face that's that's the
way they preferred it is it and
is that has that taught you any lessons
in terms of being able to nurture
relationships and
being able to build rapport quite fast
with with prospective clients
i think yeah i think um
what it really taught me was the
importance of being human and i see you
know so many people talking about that
now and authenticity
and it's like hallelujah you know at
last
we can actually just be ourselves and
that that's a good thing to be
um oh sorry that's all right
it's the window cleaner again and she's
not so keen
um so yeah i think it is all about
authenticity and i think when you're
working face-to-face with people
it is much less um it's much less
um supply-based and
you can afford a relationship that's
real and
the challenges that you face which
inevitably we all do when we're
providing services
or when we're having services provided
to us
you can deal with them in a human way
and and work through them importantly
i know and that's the that's that's the
key difference for me having a real
actual normal human relationship with
your client or your supplier
when you're working face to face okay
okay
got it and does that to to get a bit
more granny on that does that just mean
be less corporate so rather than talking
to someone like you're just talking to
another corporate business talk to them
as if they're your friend
yeah i totally do i completely do
don't you do what do you think yeah on
on most levels um with myself i'd say it
probably depends on who it is
and i've got to judge the tone um so i
i like to p i like to pick up on people
in terms of
how they're talking to me so if i think
it's someone that's extremely corporate
and that if i start talking to my friend
then i'll probably try and judge that
tone or if i think that
there's someone i can get along with on
that level then i'll try it that way
that tends to be my my my luck it but
everyone's got their own
perspective and respect to whatever
works at the end of the day
um cool so moving forward you're back in
the uk
yes with that um what what was next for
yourself were there any other roles that
you could share with us
yeah yeah i did um after setting up the
consultancy services division for
a firm i realized that there was more to
the world than
there was the world of recruitment than
just the transaction that you know the
the contingent recruitment
world that i'd grown up in and when i
started
looking at what other businesses were
doing in that space
research businesses executive search
businesses i was
really fascinated by how it was actually
done
really you know by these businesses and
i went
i went and worked for a couple of them
and god i learned like a
another world again and the world of
recent executive research of talent
pipelining and telling matt talent
mapping and i mean getting specifics of
my industry now but
it was just um fascinating and
i guess what i learned there was it
doesn't matter how
you know how big or sophisticated a
client looks like a microsoft or an
astrozenica
they all face challenges and they all
need solutions
and they are all buying from people like
us
and you know i teach people now don't be
phased by
you know sophisticated companies because
they've just got different types of
challenges
they still need you
really good point um yeah everyone
everyone's got challenges everyone's got
problems they need help with
how do you go about tapping into these
type of massive clients
and i guess yeah we're talking kind of
real complex selling here with multiple
decision makers
yeah fair and things like persona
mapping all this kind of technical stuff
that's
well above my head to be honest um
how does one get into that kind of stuff
i guess it's something you need to
practice something you need
help from you from your team i guess
there's other members of
of your company working together with
you on accounts is that
yeah it's uh you know i mean it's
the simple analogy is you're catching
bigger fish and so you know you need
more sophisticated equipment and more
time and more energy and more resources
and
they generally take longer um i
i tend to you know teach
people to have a balance of you know
smaller fish and smaller targets to go
after as well because they can be
it can be a much longer sales cycle um
but it is just i have got a bit of a
mantra that i use myself which is
professional persistence and
i quite i'm quite a systematic person
anyway and so when i'm
when i'm attack attacking a client for
development i'll systematically map
out you know those key stakeholders and
then
professionally but persistently um you
know chip away
at approaching them with in different
ways at different times
being respectful um and just keeping you
know i i send thing
i'll send birthday cards you know not
all the time and not to everybody but to
a key contact that i know i can help
yeah
you know i'll i'll do things like that
and because i'm not going to give up and
i think when you're tackling a big
client like that
showing them that you're not a flash in
the pan is really important and having
that professional persistence is
backed up with the um you know the
credibility
the the evidence of your capability um
your team um and a and a strategy for
delivery
then you know you can land some really
nice
big pieces of work great great so it
sounds like you're doing some some
personal strategies you mentioned things
like um birthday cards and stuff like
that
it's a bit of a different way to stop it
nice
okay so yeah let's jump in louise to
your own
business and it'd be great to learn a
bit more about
when the light bulb moment was why you
decided to set up on your own
and um if you could tell us a bit more
about how you've grown over the last two
three years how you're able to acquire
customers
whether you had like some companies like
to or some people i've spoken to like to
play it safe
and like to build up a slow side hustle
in the background
and get a short client roster whereas
some have gone all out from day one not
really had much and
just worked on hard graphs it'd be
interesting to learn how you played it
yeah sure i mean i guess um
like i said i didn't set out to set my
own business up so
it happened by accident by accident
rather than by design
um i was on garden leave
from the last company that i worked for
and a guy i used to work with called me
up and said
um i've moved i'm working for i've
spoken for a few years
i'm working for business that don't do
retained they don't work on a retained
basis but they really should will you
come in and will you teach us how to do
it and i said well i don't know whether
i'm qualified to do that and he said
well you taught me
so you can so i went in and i just did
it while i was you know not really doing
anything else and it wasn't in my
non-compete so
um and it worked and i taught them how
to you know how to how to sell and how
to win and how to deliver retain work
and somebody heard about it they asked
me to do a similar thing i went and did
it for them and it worked really well
and then you know it went from there and
i haven't i literally have not stopped
doing that very thing since
so i i was always frightened of setting
up my own business of
firstly i think what i've been covered
through working from a business coach
now is that i do have a fear of failure
which i think is quite common amongst us
people that you know strive for uh you
know success
um but i was afraid of setting my own
business up because i was afraid of not
being the best
and if i was gonna do something i was
gonna be the best at it and
luckily fortunately that niche
there isn't really anybody else doing it
and so i feel like i can be the best
and so that has really empowered me and
and now i'm absolutely determined i will
be the best
and i'm going to continue to be the best
at what i do and
that is kind of a huge kind of you know
burning imperative that's driving
everything that i
i am doing with you know kind of from
approaching the market and communicating
with them to uncover what their
challenges are and what they want to do
to providing a service that solves that
to the absolute fact of my ability
and you know i guess it's back to what
my dad always used to say to me what
you've got to do the best way to operate
in business is just to simply do what
you say you're going to do
and and it's so basic and so simple but
um it's a big part of how i think
we've grown so far and how i think we
will continue to grow
so it has it's taken off really and i've
only kind of set up the business and
established a website and an identity
and as a result of the success
and i think you know when i talk to
younger or kind of budding
entrepreneurs or people that want to set
up on their own and you know they've got
ideas and they want to do this
the advice that i give them is go and do
it first
and you know make sure it sounds simple
again it makes sure it's viable and make
sure it is something that people
actually want and need
before you go setting up websites or
setting up companies or deciding that
that's what you're going to do for the
rest of your life um
yeah i felt like the that organic
you know the i don't know which way
around is it the tail wagging the dog or
the dog wagging the tail but
whatever the right way round is i felt
like that was the right way and and i
feel confident about the
you know the future success of the
business because of it definitely some
some real great points there so it
sounds like it's quite a lot to do with
mindset
and you've had that mindset you wanted
to be the best in your industry
and it sounds like you pick quite a
niche as well which is good so there's
not loads and loads of competition that
you need to be concerned about so as
long as you do a great job
then it's going to set you quite apart
um do what you
do what you're going to say to what
you've said you're going to do
which is sounds so simple but is is
quite rarely done
um to the t anyway and um
yeah that's a great point the last one
make sure it's actually viable before
setting up your business
so like you say before spending all this
money on staff
websites digital marketing office space
whatever it may be whatever's involved
actually probably do it a little bit in
your spare time make sure the concept
actually works make sure people actually
want what you offer i guess
and it's gonna work you can make money
from it
yeah but at the same time you know um i
think i
the way that i was brought up was quite
sort of ying and nian because i had him
you know my dad on the one side
saying you know saying very sensible
logical things like this and my mom on
the other side who was a
who was an entrepreneur and also in the
recruitment industry who is very much
kind of a role model for me
saying you've got to speculate to
accumulate you know and so she's a risk
taker
and i think you've got to have that
healthy balance haven't you between um
you know the solid principles and
foundations of a
of a successful business and that
element of jumping on opportunities and
taking risks to to grow and move forward
sure makes sense and in terms of being
able to
grow your business louise and being able
to acquire a new pipeline your customers
new clients
and what kind of strategies have you
implemented has there been any with
digital marketing or any with offline or
more traditional marketing
yeah it's interesting you asked that sam
um because it's very much a topic for us
at the moment
um and you know working out what our
strategy looks like
is is just kind of coming together
because everything that's happened so
far largely has been organic
um okay we haven't spent any money on
advertising
um we haven't you know really got a
marketing strategy
um and it's all been linked in is where
kind of all my all our customers are
and just by building a presence and
a personal brand really and um
putting myself out there and and being
visible
i've been able to you know to really
start a great growth trajectory
and then for us it's more now about how
do we take that to the next level
where are sensible places for us to
invest in
in marketing um in paid advertising to
generate
the leads that we know are there we know
that our customers are facing the kind
of challenges that all the other
customers that we're working with are
so sure no sure so it sounds like
linkedin's played a good part and apart
from that was it referrals from other
other businesses that
things like that have helped you get
more customers definitely referrals have
been a huge
a huge point and in fact sometimes you
know we're referred from people that we
don't know
um and that that's happened several
times recently
um and i think yeah
referrals to linkedin is where it's all
it's all been so far so i'm intrigued to
know
what's the next step you know and what
what happens when you start putting some
money in some investment behind
you know marketing and advertising and
how does that impact
sales excellent excellent well yeah i
mean some of the key takeaways i've
picked up on today louise were
done is better than perfect which is one
of the first thing in terms of that your
sales training and
just getting on the phone and kind of
getting to it and learning as
you as you go along the cycle um selling
face-to-face
all about being human so being relatable
to your customers your prospective
customer client
um big clients just because they're big
they still need solutions they still
need
help so they shouldn't you shouldn't be
scared of approaching the big fish
and even if you are on a small fund and
then um
great points about mindset doing what
you actually set out what you're saying
you're going to do
and making sure business is actually
going to be viable before you go
going all in and being being prepared to
take take some risks as well
yeah yeah excellent stuff
well what we'd like to ask everyone that
comes on this show louise is if you
thank just one person
if you're dead or alive having a
positive influence on yourself and your
career who would that be
and why my mom 100
easy hands down yeah absolute
inspiration
you know just absolutely incredible
she's constantly been my cheerleader
and you know picking me up when i've
when i've fallen and
encouraging me to keep going when i
thought that i couldn't and
yeah she's she's the reason that i'm
doing what i'm doing
excellent stuff well everyone you've
been tuning in to sam's business for a
show or we sit down with business
leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story our
marketing's happened along the way and
they'll expect tips and insights to help
you skyrocket your business
louise tell us a bit more about your
company and how people can learn from
you help you can get in touch
and reach out that's nice thank you sam
um thank you for having me it's been
really nice
um i hope that something that i've said
somewhere resonates with somebody
um so yeah my business is called retrain
search
we teach contingent recruit recruiters
and recruitment companies how to be the
transition to a retained model
or how to build and develop a retained
model
and you can get in touch with me on
linkedin louise archer or our website
retrainedsearch.com brilliant stuff
louise thanks so much for coming on
pleasure thank you for having me thank
you sam constantly hunting for new
customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts